                            NEdit Version 3.1

NEdit is a GUI style plain text editor for workstations with X Windows and
Motif.  It supports a thorough set of features for programming and general
purpose text editing.

Building NEdit

The two directories called source and util contain the sources for NEdit.  Util
should be built first, followed by source.  The makefile in this directory can
be used to build both in sequence if your system is one of the supported
machines and no modifications are necessary to the makefiles.  To build NEdit
from this directory, issue the command: "make <machine-type>_nedit"; where
<machine-type> is one of the supported machine types: sgi, ultrix, sunos,
solaris, hp, osf, or ibm.  For example, to build the Silicon Graphics version,
type:

	make sgi_nedit

If everything works properly, this will produce an executable called nedit in
the directory called source.


The Source Directories

Since executables are already available for the supported systems, you are
probably not just rebuilding an existing configuration, and need to know more
about how the directories are organized.

The util directory builds a library file called libNUtil.a, which is later
linked with the code in the source directory to create the nedit executable.

The makefiles in both source directories consist of two parts, a machine
dependent part and a machine independent part.  The machine dependent makefiles
contain machine specific header information and invoke a common machine
independent part called Makefile.common.  To compile the files in either of
these directories, issue the command: "make -f Makefile.<machine-type>"; where
<machine type> is one of the supported machine types.  For example, on a
Silicon Graphics machine, you would type:

	make -f Makefile.sgi

To add a new machine type or configuration, copy one of the existing machine
dependent makefiles and give it the name of the new system, for example:
Makefile.sony.  Then, make any required changes in the new makefile.

 
Building NEdit on VMS Systems

Command files are provided for compiling and linking files in the source
and util directories.  comutil.com compiles the files in the util directory
and produces two library files, vmsutils.olb and libutil.olb.  comnedit.com
compiles and links the files in the source directory to produce the nedit.exe
executable.


Installation

NEdit consists of a single, stand-alone executable file which does not require
any special installation.  To install NEdit on Unix systems, simply put the
nedit executable in your path.  On VMS systems, nedit must be defined as a
foreign command so that it can process command line arguments.  For example,
if nedit.exe were in the directory mydir on the disk called mydev, adding the
following line to your login.com file would define the nedit command:

	$ ned*it :== $mydev:[mydir]nedit.exe


Running NEdit

If you are accessing a host Unix system from a remote workstation or X terminal,
you need to set the Unix environment variable for your display:

	% setenv DISPLAY devicename:0
	
where devicename is the network node name of the workstation or X terminal
where you are typing.  On VMS systems, the equivalent command is:

	$ set display/create/node=devicename

To run NEdit, simply type "nedit", optionally followed by the name of a file or
files to edit.  On-line help is available from the pulldown menu on the far
right of the menu bar.  For more information on the syntax of the nedit command
line, look under the heading of "NEdit Command Line."


Problems, Questions, or Comments:

If you have problems, questions, or comments, send mail to:
nedit_suport@fnal.gov.

Before reporting a problem, please check the Problems/Bugs section of the
on-line help to make sure the problem is not already known.

Mark Edel
edel@fnal.gov
Fermi National Accelerator Laboratory
P.O. Box 500
Batavia, IL 60148
